hey guys welcome back to flicks recap my
name is luke pelletier and today we're
looking at the 2016 comedy drama flick
the late bloomer before we get into it
be sure to drop a like leave a comment
and subscribe to flicks recap if you dig
the coverage okay let's do it
dr peter newman's or pete is a
30-something-year-old sex addiction
therapist and author who guides his
patients on how they can re-channel
their mojo into being successful his
best friends luke and rich often like to
crash at his place without giving him
any notice
rich and his wife jenny have two kids
while luke's girlfriend rachel has
recently broken up with him that night
they want pete to play video games with
them but pete promised his friend and
neighbor michelle that he'd go over to
her place for a small get-together to
try out some of the new recipes she's
come up with
at michelle's place pete meets her
boyfriend charlie
now charlie is pretty open about being a
douche
he doesn't even remember pete even
though they've met a number of times
anyway pete then talks to michelle who
is cooking dinner for the guests he
tells her how good of a cook she is and
how she should have her own restaurant
but michelle doesn't think she's ready
yet
their fun and pretty flirtatious
conversation is interrupted by charlie
who is just way too busy on his phone
the next morning pete goes to meet his
parents
his mom worries that he's so busy with
all his work that he doesn't have enough
time to date while his father points out
the irony that pete writes books about
sex but has never himself had a
girlfriend
later at work pete's boss caroline gives
him some good news he's been accepted to
do a ned talk about his new book and
he's also going to be interviewed on
live radio
meanwhile michelle dumps charlie after
which pete goes over to cheer her up she
breaks down and tells him that she
doesn't want to be with charlie anymore
because charlie always focuses on his
work which makes her feel lonely all the
time
she's also taken pete's advice and
decided to become a chef so she can
invest her energy into something
positive this conversation soon sparks
something more romantic when michelle
kisses pete
but as soon as michelle tries to catch
the rebound pete starts having this
piercing headache and has to leave
the next morning rich and luke show up
at his place again and wake him up for a
three-on-three basketball game that they
had planned pete tells them about his
massive headache and asks for a
raincheck but at the same time michelle
shows up to thank him for being there
for her the previous night and
apologizes for the kiss
on their way to the basketball game luke
and rich advise pete to take his chance
with michelle now that she's back in the
dating pool but pete doesn't want to
take advantage of her emotional
vulnerability very wise pete i respect
that
later while playing basketball pete gets
knocked square in the nuts so hard that
he actually passes out
he gets taken to the hospital where his
brain scan reveals that he's had a
benign brain tumor that's been pressing
up against his pituitary gland probably
for many years as a result of this tumor
his normal male development has been
compromised so he had been maintaining
this low level of testosterone
basically he's never gone through
puberty
as mortifying as this might seem pete
actually finds some comfort here because
now he has an explanation for why he's
been so different from most other guys
he excitedly tells his friends about it
he shares how he has never had an
erection before and how he never went to
a doctor about it because he didn't want
to know the diagnosis i'm not sure if
i'd be as hyped as pete is but hey
different strokes for different folks
soon pete undergoes a surgery to have
the tumor removed and stays with his
parents for a few days to recuperate
but a few days later he tells luke and
rich that he's not feeling any different
than he was before the surgery and now
is worried that the operation might not
have worked
fortunately for pete luke and rich are
way ahead of him they've hired a
professional dancer to perform for him
unfortunately for the guys her display
doesn't do anything for pete either
luckily
and i use that term very loosely luckily
things begin to change the next morning
when pete finally gets his first
erection and at 30 years old crosses the
threshold from being a child into being
a young adult
and he moves pretty quickly too because
he is
discovering himself pretty much all the
time and anywhere he goes even at work
especially at work because listening to
his patients talking about their kinks
and otherwise non-conventional sex lives
turns him on like a lot
soon his face is covered in zits and
this is enough to make him decide to
visit his doctor about his urges
the doctor tells him that because his
puberty has been delayed by almost 15
years he's probably experiencing all of
it at an accelerated rate now
and all this time michelle has been
thinking that pete was away due to a
family emergency
by this time she's decided to go to
santa barbara on a culinary retreat
organized by some famous chef and
restaurateur named bobby but she clearly
cares a lot about pete she video calls
him from santa barbara and tells him
that she's at chef bobby's house she
also tells him that she finds bobby very
handsome which makes pete super jealous
meanwhile other symptoms of puberty
continue to hit pete in unexpected and
inconvenient ways
during his live radio interview about
his book his voice keeps cracking
later he acts out in front of his
parents and when michelle calls again he
is so jealous of bobby that he hangs up
on her in anger he also has this weird
pow-wow with his teenage neighbor josh
and starts overly relating with the kid
josh gives him typical teenager advice
about how michelle must be very
experienced sexually and that pete
should show her that he's just as
seasoned
pete takes josh's advice pretty
seriously and goes on some practice
tinder dates to literally get a few
experiences under his belt
one night charlie shows up at michelle's
apartment feeling apologetic and wanting
to get back with her
since michelle is away he talks to pete
and leaves some flowers at her doorstep
when michelle returns from her retreat
the next day she thinks that pete had
left the flowers for her pete acts as
though he did actually get her those
flowers and finally musters up the
courage to ask her out and she agrees to
go out with him but pete has forgotten
that he's supposed to babysit rich's
kids that night because rich and jenny
are going out to celebrate their wedding
anniversary
when rich calls him to check why he
hadn't shown up pete refuses to help out
because of his date with michelle and
the two get into a fight
later pete's new dating guru josh
advises him that he should stop being so
nice all the time because girls like a
little edge
so pete starts acting like a jerk on his
date with michelle which throws her off
when michelle tells him about her time
in santa barbara pete gets jealous again
and gets dangerously close to blowing it
with her
just as he's about to lay it all out
there about what he's going through with
his late puberty situation rich and
jenny show up to the same restaurant
because as it turns out pete stole their
reservation
things get heated in a very immature way
obviously michelle is confused and
furious at this new pete and asks him to
explain what's going on but that doesn't
go down too well either especially when
it's revealed that the flowers from the
other night were actually from charlie
pete lets all his emotional and sexual
frustration weigh on him so much that
the next day he's even ready to have
oral sex with a patient of his luckily
his boss comes in before anything
happens
she reprimands pete and asks him to
leave
distraught with going through these
changes pete seeks his dad's advice and
the two have an emotional heart to heart
the next day pete is supposed to give
his ned talk about re-channeling sexual
energy but his newfound sex drive
changes the course of his talk in the
middle of it he goes on a rant about how
his own theories have some deep flaws
and that sex is actually awesome and
important in life needless to say he
gets a standing ovation from the student
body which is most of his audience
later he goes to rich's daughter's
birthday party and makes things right
with rich and jenny jenny tells him that
michelle has been hired as a sous chef
at bobby's new restaurant and that he
should go there to support her
he does exactly that but michelle isn't
happy to see him she's already back with
charlie and wants pete to leave but luke
and rich egg him on to tell her
everything and so he makes a very public
confession about his late puberty and in
the end michelle breaks up with charlie
and she and pete kiss
the film comes to a close with the
launch of pete's new book and a pregnant
michelle standing by his side
the late bloomer is a light and funny
film which gives off the same vibes as
some of those early y2k comedies like
the 40 year old virgin i mean
conceptually it's got a pretty similar
story too i can tell you right now i
probably wouldn't have minded if puberty
only lasted like a month tops
a little angst here a few misplaced
dreams over there and add a moment or
two that seemed important at the time
but really didn't matter in the long run
to flavor
all kidding aside though while i usually
cover films with a bit more gristle what
makes this film super interesting to me
is that it's actually based on a true
story the life and times of
entertainment journalist ken baker who
published a memoir about his experience
as a late bloomer yeah the more you know
i guess
but what did you think of this film let
me know in the comments below and of
course be sure to drop a like for the
commentary and subscribe to the channel
so that you don't miss the next recap
until next time